very recently zomato's founder dender
goyel has been quoted saying that the
blinket acquisition may be one of
India's best internet Acquisitions to
date and he believes that so I think
it's a matter of some number of months
before blinket becomes bigger than Z
research analysts have pegged the
valuation of blinket to be approximately
95,000 CR rupees and zomato today is
valued at about 2 and A2 lakh CR rupees
when quick commerce was launched in
India in fy21 it was ES estimated that
the gross merchandise value was about
$300 million today the same gmv is
estimated to be $3 billion and quick
Commerce Market size in India for the
next 6 years is estimated to be $40
billion if you look at any quick
Commerce application today you will see
categories that you couldn't have even
imagined In Your Wildest Dreams you can
get a PS5 on blinkit you can order
decalon clothing on the zpp application
and anything that you possibly require
for your house today and I've been
wondering why is it that quick Commerce
is only working in India in the US
gopuff has been laying off employees in
Europe turkey headquartered Geer has
shut down all markets except for its
core Market which is turkey but in India
zepto has raised $665 million at a 3.6
billion dollar valuation there are
clearly some ingredients that are
allowing quick Commerce to flood Lish in
India and when I went down this Rabbit
Hole I discovered a terrific report from
the brokerage firm JM Financial which
explains the quick Commerce opportunity
in India which answers exactly how much
money does a delivery boy make how much
money does a dark store make and this is
the Crux of the quick Commerce business
if you are an entrepreneur business
owner or a person who's just generally
curious about India you will find a
number of interesting data points that
will allow you to understand the nuance
of the quick Commerce business and also
think through some potential business
opportunities for you on the quick
Commerce delivery model in today's video
we're going to cover this report from JM
Financial on quick Commerce welcome to
breakdown the JM financial report on
quick Commerce has a fantastic opening
statement which says it always seems
impossible until it's done and for me
quick Commerce has a very special place
in my mind because I was part of y
combinator's winter 21 cohort and I
remember that there was a company in my
group which was called kirana cart and
someone I know very well had told me if
this kirana thing can raise funding then
we are definitely at the top of the
market and if you've studied your
history you know that this kirana thing
which was kirana cart ended up raising a
40 million series a which is
approximately 320 crores after our y
combinator winter 21 cohort and that
Kiran cart is what you and I know as
zepto today so why is quick Commerce
working in India it's a unique
Confluence of three factors which seem
simple but are actually super
interesting and unique to our
country the first reason India has many
high density population clusters in
Bangalore it's 11,000 people per square
km in Mumbai it's 20,000 people per
square km Urban India is densely packed
either in areas which are close to
offices like verle in Mumbai like indran
nagar in Bangalore or in Housing Society
complexes which will have thousands of
people in a small area compare this to
the West the culture there is more
Suburban people will commute into office
either by driving over a long distance
or taking Railway or Metro
Transportation because the density of
traffic there is much lower than India
next is India has high income disparity
Within These Den population clusters
just visualize Mr Amani's Ana building
beautiful view and you look down and
there's a slum area the beauty of Indian
cities or even the curse of Indian
cities is that we have the Haves and the
Have Nots who stay on the same Lane you
will find a person earning in crws on
the same road as a person who cannot
even put two square meals for their
family and ultimately the quick Commerce
business is built on micro markets small
radio I where deliveries can be
fulfilled from a dark store and India
has availability of lowcost Labor and
the people who have the willingness to
pay for the convenience within the same
micro Market which is what is making
quick Commerce work in India the third
reason is India unlike most other
Western Nations has the availability of
lower cost labor in India the delivery
charge for quick Commerce is often waved
off once your order crosses 49 or in
cases where your order is below 49 you
would end up paying 30 4050 rupees Which
is less than $1 to get the delivery to
your doorstep in 10 to 15 minutes when
you compare this to the West delivery
charges are over and above the cost of
the items and this can be anywhere from
5 to10 to $15 for a single order and
these three factors are why quick
Commerce just seems to work like magic
in India the dark store is the core of
the quick Commerce business and
therefore for us to understand the quick
Commerce business model we have to
understand the unit economics of how a
single dark store operates today if you
read the news you will see articles
saying that quick Commerce is killing
the kirana store and I hate to break it
to you but this news is very badly
misinformed the reality is that most
dark stores in fact blinket CEO says 100
plus dark stores are actually franchise
owned and franchise operated which means
that people like you and I are
partnering up with the quick Commerce
companies to set up a dark store in our
locality and operate these dark stores
so it is not quick Commerce companies
that are killing the kirana store it is
people like you and I who are franchises
or independent business owners
partnering with quick Commerce companies
who are killing the kirana store
owners let's begin with the capex or the
capital investment that you would need
to make to set up a dark store as is a
franchise owner approximately the total
capex is 90 lakh rupees this 90 lakh
Rupees is broken into two parts capex on
the store which is approximately 70 lakh
rupees and a rental deposit which is 20
lakh rupees now if you're someone who
owns the property or the building in
which the dark store is going to be
placed then of course you don't need to
pay the rental deposit if you know the
landlord you can even get a discount on
the rental deposit within the dark store
you need to think of this dark store as
very similar to a supermarket a
supermarket has shelves racks of shelves
and it has aisle space for you to walk
up and down the supermarket the same way
a dark store has employees who walk up
and down the dark store just like how
you walk up and down the supermarket
aisle therefore one of the most
important capex investments in the dark
store are the shelves are the racks
where these goods and other products are
going to be placed for the darkstore
employee to pick pick them up pack them
and hand it over to the delivery boy at
the counter and therefore this takes
about 30 lakh rupes in capex next up is
you might definitely order some form of
ice cream some form of meat or some
frozen products therefore a dark store
needs to have fridges and also dark
store needs to have an inventory tagging
and billing system which is why it needs
Electronics as well so electronics and
fridges would come to an additional 10
lakh Rupees finally a dark store needs
to have some inventory this inventory of
course rotates and as per the team at JM
financials the perishables which is
fresh fruits Meats Etc are refilled at
least once a day and in some cases
refilled multiple times a day for non-p
perishables there is usually a 4 to 5
day cycle of replenishment so this
inventory rotates and a typical dark
store carries about 30 lakh rupees worth
of inventory now what the JM financial
report misses in these capex
calculations and you would be able to
find this if you were to go and inquire
to become a franchise owner of a quick
Commerce company is that there is a
refundable franchise deposit that needs
to be given by you or I if we seek to
become a blinket zepto or instamart
franchise owner as of now I personally
don't know what this franchise deposit
will be but I'd imagine it's at least a
double digit lakh so 10 to 15 lakh plus
rupees along with information about
capex the team at JM Financial has
shared some eye-opening insights about
the dark store operations a typical dark
store carries about 5 days worth of
inventory and the delivery radius for a
dark store is about 3 km and this 3 km
is what allows after 2 to 3 minutes to
be given for packing the goods that
you've ordered a further 7 to 10 or 12
minutes for the delivery boy to take the
bike or the scooter and get to your
home we've understood now what capex it
takes to set up a dark store and we now
have some idea of what the dark store is
next let's get into the operations of
what happens behind the wall inside the
dark store these dark stores usually
operate on three shifts which is 24
hours a day and give or take there are
eight workers per shift the staff
salaries would come to about 4 and2 lakh
rupees the rent would come to about 3
and2 lakh rupees for a place that is
approximately
3,500 ft on the ground floor the
utilities which is water electricity and
other plumbing would come to about 1.5
lakh rupees and a typical dark store at
scale would be able to service
1,400 orders a day therefore if you
compare the cost of running the dark
store to the number of orders this dark
store cost works out to about 22 rupees
per order from the dark store and for
those of you who are deep in the retail
business you would quickly recognize
that the throughput which is the volume
of sales that these dark stores make can
be almost double or triple what a
supermarket of the comparable size is
able to do and that's where the quick
Commerce business starts to make sense
it's a scale
business now that we've understood the
dark store which is at the core of the
quick Commerce business we also need to
understand the concept of the mother
warehouse for those of you who have
studied the logistics business you would
be familiar with the concept of the Hub
and the spoke model in the logistics
business Hub and spoke means that there
is a central warehouse from which goods
are sent to the spoke which is close to
the customer and then goods are finally
delivered to the customer in the quick
Commerce business while the dark store
is f franchise owned and franchise
operated the mother Warehouse or the Hub
is Coco company owned and Company
operated let's Now understand what is
this mother Warehouse there's approxim
one mother warehouse for 40 dark stores
and this means that every time a quick
Commerce company expands into a new city
not only do they have to pick a few dark
stores and locations where there will be
enough demand density they need to also
carefully select the location for the
mother Warehouse so while a dark store
is about 2 and 1/ half to 32,000 Square
ft your mother Warehouse is 17 25,000
Square ft and therefore it tends to be a
little further away from the city center
where you can get such a warehouse as of
today this mother Warehouse is primarily
used to replenish or resupply the dark
stores on a daily and multiple times per
day basis in the future you can think of
this mother Warehouse as being the point
where the quick Commerce company is able
to get the longtail skus delivered to
your doorstep there are certain high
demand skus products that you and I
order frequently which can be stocked in
the dark store and delivered to you but
there are some items that are ordered
infrequently and these items can be kept
at the mother Warehouse sent to the dark
store and finally to you provided that
you're willing to wait a little longer I
am already starting to see this because
I tend to order the 20 l or the 10 L
blery tub which takes about 25 to 30
minutes to come to my house and I'm very
sure that this is coming from another
location to the dark store and then
coming to my house in the future these
mother warehouses can be used to store
certain high value Electronics which you
and I may order very infrequently why
would you want these electronics at a
company-owned company operated site well
precisely because someone can pick up
that iPhone 16 which is worth 50,000
Rupees and disappear therefore rather
than keeping it at a frch anchise
location it would be safer to keep it at
a company location and then have it
delivered when the infrequent demand
from the customer comes in therefore
this mother Warehouse is not just a
logistic Supply point it is also a place
from where Commerce will take place in
the future so we've now covered the dark
store and the mother Warehouse the next
crucial part of the quick Commerce value
chain is the delivery boy this is the
person who whether it is 45 degrees in
Delhi NCR or pouring very heavily in
Mumbai will show up at your doorstep
with a big smile on their face how much
money do they make do they make money
this is a question that the JM Financial
team has spent a lot of time on by
sending their staff out to talk to the
delivery Partners who are based in
Mumbai in my personal experience a lot
of these delivery Partners come from
smaller cities they are hired by labor
Contracting agencies who get contracts
from Quick Commerce companies therefore
a lot of these delivery partners are not
independent gig workers they are
actually employed by these labor
agencies to go work for the quick
Commerce companies but for them just
like how the uniform of a security guard
is a matter of Pride for them their
purple orange or yellow outfit is
genuinely a matter of Pride for them
because they go back home and tell their
family that they have a job with this
company that is well known and
recognized another important thing to
remember is that not all delivery
Partners have a bike some of them have
an electric scooter some of them even
use a bicycle and this is what JM
Financial has found out about delivery
partner earnings broadly speaking if the
delivery partner were to work for 7 days
in a week for 10 hours a day and deliver
on average one order every 30 minutes
which is two deliveries an hour they
would end up making approximately 4,000
rupes
as net earnings in 7 days and if we
assume that they work 28 days in the
month this means that they could be
earning anywhere from 16,000 to 20,000
rupees now the JM Financial team has not
accounted for tips that people like you
and I might provide over and above the
amount that we are paying to the quick
Commerce company as the order value and
therefore a typical earnings can be much
higher or this figure let's take the
example of the delivery boy who's using
a motorcycle they're able to work 10
hours a day and it takes them
approximately 30 minutes to deliver an
order which means they're doing
approximately two deliveries an hour and
ballpark they are covering 5 km in a
delivery remember that in a delivery
there is from the quick Commerce dark
store to your house and from your house
back to the dark store the distance
travel per day is therefore 100 km the
number of deliveries that they're able
to do in the day is 20 therefore in in a
week they would be able to do 120 to 140
and they're making approximately 60
rupes per order and this means that
they're making ballpark 7,000 rupees per
week from this of course they need to
pay for the fuel for the motorbike and
that's their primary expense along with
that they would need to keep aside some
money for maintenance maybe the tires
need to be changed there are scratches
on the vehicle so on and so forth that
works out of another 900 rupes in total
the cost of this delivery Partners
vehicle is about 3,000 rupees and
therefore the delivery partner makes
about 4,000 rupes in net earnings per
week on top of this like I mentioned
they would get tips from generous people
like you and they may also get some
over-the-top incentives for delivering
late at night or delivering when the
weather is really bad for example heavy
rainfall an important thing to remember
here is that JM Financial has assumed
that the delivery partner is working 10
hours a day 6 to 7 days a week a lot of
the quick Commerce workers may not be
working quote unquote fulltime the way
the JM Financial team has projected it
for some of them it may be a partial or
maybe a side hobby while they have
another job like a construction worker
or maybe even a college
[Music]
student now that you've understood the
unit economics of the dark store the
concept of the mother warehouse and the
unit economics of the delivery boy the
next step for us is to understand the
profit equation of a quick Commerce
company The Profit equation for quick
Commerce is super simple profit is
revenue Minus cost what is revenue
revenue is cross merchandise value gmv
gmv is aov multiplied by
frequency let's come to fees what does
fees mean you must have definitely seen
a platform or a convenience fee which
you are now paying some 2 rupees 3 rupes
5 rupes 6 rupes and along with that
there are fees being paid by brands or
companies that sell their products
through the quick Commerce channel the
JM Financial team actually explains this
when they have covered that 2 years back
the average order value was
approximately 200 to 300 rupees today it
is approximately 400 to 500 rupees and
it varies across different quick
Commerce companies at the same time
advertisement income which 2 years back
was pretty much non-existent it was sub
1% is today going 2 to 3 3 to 4% so
clearly quick Commerce revenue is on the
rise what about cost now cost is wastage
plus delivery Cost Plus warehouse cost
Warehouse cost is something that we had
covered in the previous part of this
video delivery cost pretty obvious to us
and wastage it's pretty simple that as
the quick Commerce business skills they
get more data which allows them to
forecast inventory better therefore with
scale wastage comes down therefore quick
Commerce companies are on the path to
profitability in Q3 FY 23 blinket
adjusted loss was about 326 CR rupees
this figure exactly a year later in Q3
FY 24 came down to an 89 CR loss and in
the most recent quarter which is q1 FY
25 blinket reported an adjusted loss of
3 CR rupees clearly this path to
profitability is working out with scale
and with demand side optimizations in
fact it's not blinket alone that is
selling this picture of profit even
zepto and zepto founder Adit said in a
social media post that they saw 44%
Improvement in quarterly ibida in
calendar year 2023 and he believes that
in the next 36 months they will be at
company level Break Even let's just
quickly go over a few of the levers that
these quick Commerce companies are using
to improve their revenue and reduce
their cost from the obvious to the
non-obvious the obvious ones we've
obviously covered platform fees we've
covered ads we've covered category
expansion Electronics fashion home and
furniture they also now have loyalty
programs swiggy 1 is a great example
zepto pass in the first few months of
launch scaled up to 50 lakh people with
the pass of course the pass was given
free to some of us but now quite a lot
of us are even paying for the zepto pass
if you go back in history Amazon's Prime
program which is a subscription program
built the frequency and the Habit
formation to continue the ordering and I
personally believe that the same
behavior of habit formation and the
category expansion will continue to
drive spends from e-commerce to Quick
Commerce next let's come to some
nonobvious levers that the quick
Commerce companies are pressing very
hard on Financial Services I'm sure if
you've used the swiggy application to
place a food order or an instamart order
you have seen them promoting their
co-branded credit card with HDFC that
offers you up to 10% cash back Financial
Services is a great way for these quick
Commerce companies to generate revenue
and it's only a matter of time that the
quick Commerce companies like their food
delivery peers will end up offering
working Capital Loans and advances not
only to their franchise Partners but
also to their delivery Partners the next
one is honestly going to surprise you
and I'll take you back to when you were
a child I'm sure your parents once a
month would go and buy that 25 kg
basmati rice 10 kilos of Dal 10 kilos of
oil and lug it back home this behavior
is called the stock up purchase and so
far quick Commerce has not been able to
break into the stock up purchase it is
targeting the topup purchase what is a
topup purchase think about perishable
food commodities like eggs like milk
like bread which you need to order on a
regular basis perhaps even more than
once per day but now as per news
coverage from the economic Times these
quick Commerce companies are actually
partnering with the brands to offer
larger size stock keeping units skus
through the quick Commerce Channel they
are figuring out how their delivery
Fleet will now get you a 20 kilo basmati
rice a 10 kilo basmati rice with the
explicit goal of now getting you to move
your topup purchases to the quick
Commerce Channel as well and you will be
surprised to note that as per The niq
Shopper Trends 2024 31% of urban Indians
are now actually using quick Commerce
for their primary grocery shopping along
with this there is a possibility that
quick Commerce companies May launch
private label private label just means
that they have their own branded
products which will be sold through
their own quick Commerce Channel zepto
meat is one example of this perhaps
Licious will now face some competition
and finally quick Commerce companies are
launching entirely new categories for
example blinket has partnered with the
sports brand decalon to offer clothing
through their Channel and zepto has gone
and launched food as a category through
their own brand called zepto Cafe which
is delivering chai Samosa and other
snacks to your doorstep in about 10 to
15 minutes therefore this combination of
category expansion wallet share capture
and financial services is what is going
to continue to drive the gross
merchandise value of quick
[Music]
Commerce next let's go into the
opportunities that quick Commerce makes
available ailable to you the
entrepreneur five opportunities and
we'll go from the most obvious to the
least obvious number one the most
obvious is of course become a franchise
dark store owner and partner with one of
these quick Commerce companies in
today's video you saw the unit economics
of a dark store which should give you a
good idea of what your return on Capital
might be and if you're serious about
this you should definitely go check out
the websites of any of the quick
Commerce companies because they all have
a dedicated page for franchise owners
and aspir franchise owners they will
give you a dedicated relationship
manager and one of the interesting
things that I'll leave you with is if
you're someone who's not from a Metro
City this could be a great opportunity
for you because every day you will hear
of one of these quick Commerce companies
launching a new non-metro city for
example blinket went live in udur jaur
and a few other towns the franchise
opportunities also especially suited if
you're setting this up in your locality
your neighborhood where you understand
understand the demand patterns
opportunity number two which is to run a
Manpower or a fleet business that caters
to these quick Commerce companies now
this opportunity is suited to a specific
type of entrepreneur who has deep
inroads in small town India and you are
able to Source labor that is
aspirational that wants to move to a
Metro City because a quick Commerce
delivery boy job is not an easy job the
number one problem with this business is
going to be that there is high attrition
which is that the quick Commerce
delivery boys may leave after 3 to 6
months but if you can solve this this is
a short short path to building a
profitable company that will scale over
time because you will grow as the quick
Commerce volumes in India grow let's
come to opportunity number three this is
for those of you who have keen consumer
insights or some background in consumer
products or Brands especially in the
food and beverage category and this is
create a quick Commerce native consumer
brand a great example of this is the ice
cream brand called gozero gozero has
seen approximately 700% growth in volume
in the last one year on the quick
Commerce Channel and their FY 24 numbers
were almost 4X the sales in FY 23 there
is one thing which you should remember
if you're looking to build a quick
Commerce native brand it should be a
product that is an Impulse buy and which
provides immediate gratification it has
to be a small size or a single meal
consumption for example the gozero ice
cream comes in a small tub it has to be
easy to transport so if you are someone
who has dealt with consumer products
before you're good at Performance
Marketing you have a sharp Insight on
consumer demand building a quick
Commerce native consumer brand could be
a great opportunity for you it's just
that once you crack the quick Commerce
Channel you will very quickly need to
diversify to other channels so that your
business does not have a concentration
risk the fourth opportunity is to do
quick Commerce for fashion and this is
an opportunity that is already being
attacked by the incumbents for example
mintra who has now launched 4-Hour
delivery for certain outfits and it is
also being attacked by insurgents on new
companies that have raised Venture
Capital the most recently announced one
is a company called slick that has
raised 2.4 CR from Untitled Ventures and
better Capital if you're someone who has
a good grasp of fashion and Logistics
then this is a business opportunity that
could make big money for you but there
are a number of risks in this business
the first risk is that the incumbents in
the fashion space like mintra like I
said are attacking the opportunity but
even incumbents in quick Commerce like
zepto have already begun partnering with
fashion brands so my big question here
is just like how minra got acquired by
Flipkart will this end up being a
consolidation business if you believe
otherwise then some of the questions
that you need to think through is what
sort of outfits or fashion items would
be required in 30 minutes or less what
is the context in which these items will
be required why would these items work
on an independent platform versus the
traditional zepto or blinket platforms
how are you going to cater to returns
how are you going to make money these
are some of the questions which you
should spend a lot of time on if you're
going to pursue the quick Commerce for
fashion opportunity and finally option
number five quick Commerce for food
quick Commerce for food caters to a
genuine problem statement and it has
been attempted in the past in 2022
zomato had shut down its instant product
in 2023 swiggy shut down its insta Cafe
product but zepto continues to power
forward with its zepto Cafe offering
there are also new companies that are
trying quick Commerce for food you have
swish which is based in Bangalore which
has recently raised a large amount of
money to power 10minute food deliveries
beginning with the HSR layout area and a
slightly older business in this space
which delivers healthy food is Protein
Chef I am almost a weekly active orderer
from Protein Chef and in the last few
months they've gone from doing 25-minute
food deliveries on swiggy to 15 minutes
or less food delivery the opportunity is
large the risk with this business is
that consumers tend to be very fickle
with their menu choices you will have to
constantly refresh your menu another
point that I want to highlight is that
while a quick Commerce dark store can
cater to a slightly broader radius
because it only needs to pack items in
quick Commerce for food you need to
prepare the food pack the food and then
deliver it and therefore the delivery
radius for a Food Outlet is much smaller
than the delivery radius for a dark
store and the capex involved here is
truly massive if you want to understand
this you should go check out a business
called Rebel foods which Powers Brands
like fos and for the most recent
Financial year Rebel Foods crossed 1,400
CR of Revenue but after 10 years of
operations it is still in loss
generating about 600 crores of loss
quick Commerce for food is a big
opportunity and for those of you who are
going to focus on this I would really
encourage you to think through items in
your menu that you can deliver in 10 to
15 minutes items that are healthy and
not too unhealthy items that customers
would like and what is a long list of
menu items that you can cycle through
over time that's all for today's
breakdown I hope you enjoyed it if you
want to learn more about quick Commerce
I would encourage you to go read the JM
financial report you will get a lot many
more insights about the quick Commerce
business thank you and until next time
[Music]